watch the face of our guest today as I
read the following quotation President
Barack Obama speaking in 2009 quote I
believe in American exceptionalism just
as I suspect that the Brits believe in
British exceptionalism and the Greeks
believe in Greek exceptionalism today on
uncommon knowledge radio host and author
Dennis Prager uncommon knowledge now
[Music]
welcome to uncommon knowledge I'm Peter
Robinson be sure to visit us on our
website at Hoover orj slash UK or on
facebook at facebook.com slash UNK
UNC knowledge facebook.com slash UNK
knowlege host of the Dennis Prager radio
show columnist lecturer and best-selling
author Dennis Prager grew up in Brooklyn
graduated from Brooklyn College and
Columbia University and then became a
westerner moving to California and
starting his radio career in Los Angeles
in 1982 dennis prager 'he's new book
still the best hope why the world needs
american values to triumph dennis
welcome to uncommon knowledge Peter it's
actually an honor oh it is well then
we're both honored well okay that's fair
the United States of America no more
exceptional on President Obama's account
than Britain or Greece what do you make
of that that is exactly what the Left
believes in fact the notion of American
exceptionalism is regarded by the left
and I want to explain why I use the word
the left as quasi fascistic chauvinistic
if not actually racist and xenophobic
and all the other terms and the reason I
mention the left is that the book is
about three alternate ideas for Humanity
there are really only three in
competition and they are left ISM
Islamism and Americanism two of them
proselytize one not only doesn't
proselytize it doesn't even know what it
stands for and that's why
wrote the book all right still the best
hope I have written this book because I
am convinced that there is a way to end
most evil not I have written this book
because I seek an American Renaissance
because I seek to repair the damaged
fabric of our country because I am a
convinced there is a way to end most
evil the only answer to making a better
world is the American value system
that's right
explain that Dennis since I was a child
I've been preoccupied with evil I have
no explanation for it and I mean it I
have none it's as if a child were to
respond to hearing a cello and said I
mommy I want to play cello they have no
explanation
mine was mommy or daddy or whomever I
want to reduce evil I am as corny as
that I have been my whole life
that's what preoccupies me I just on the
way here I read an article about a 10
year old girl in Pakistan who had
sulfuric acid thrown in her face
because of anger of a man toward her
mother and I want acid thrown in his
face I was actually thinking of raising
funds to get the girl to America for
surgery she's lost much of her face and
to hire people to throw it in his face I
mean I am really that's how passionate I
am about evil disguise growing up in
Brooklyn 60s and 70s
wasn't it hearing people talk about the
Holocaust the Holocaust was the trigger
in the background was the trigger
because I remember when it first hit me
I was about eight nine years old
watching 20th century with Walter
Cronkite Hitler came on and I said
through my parents who's that he said he
was a very bad man he killed six million
Jews and I I couldn't believe it
mmm I could what you know they said it
matter-of-factly I mean what are they
going to say you know fall on the floor
right but I somebody did that by the way
being Jewish was a factor but not the
primary primary factor some
they killed 6 million of somebody I went
to Cambodia 2 years ago just to visit
the killing fields I feel a
responsibility to visit everybody's
genocide I mean I'm very serious about
this issue anyway the the as I write in
the book evil is normal America is
abnormal that's my view we have created
something here which is unique and
remarkable gently exceptional deeply
exceptional it's and it can't be
race-based because there's no American
race right so it's a non-issue
it's idea based but Americans don't know
that idea let alone non Americans and so
that's the reason and I could you want
the idea in at one sentence sure it's
what I call the American Trinity it's on
every coin and I didn't realize it for
20 years ago emptying my pockets one
night Liberty and God We Trust
eople Orbis unum the greatest threesome
for making a good world ever created
once again still the best hope you
mention as you mentioned earlier you
described in the book three ideologies
will come to each of the three leftism
Islam and American values the American
Trinity quote these three ideologies are
incompatible any one of them succeeds at
the expense of the other to all
Islamists know this and many leftist
know this but most of those holding
American values do not alright two
propositions there any one succeeds only
at the expense of the other two
necessarily so why is that well let's
take the left the left left ISM which is
the most dynamic religion in the world
in the last century leftism is the
antithesis of Americanism in many ways
instead of instead of Liberty it prefers
material equality that is its great aim
and it's prepared to sacrifice Liberty
on the altar of equality
that's why leftists are so we're so
taken with Fidel Castro and still are
after all they they may not have Liberty
in Cuba but they have equality right
number two in god we trust'
if people have Liberty
since and this is key since people are
not basically good and the founding
fathers all knew this as the entire
judeo-christian tradition has known this
only only the men of the Enlightenment
and modern progressives believe people
are basically good but the rest of us
live on the real in the real world and
know that we're not and so how do you
have Liberty and goodness only if people
fear God in the deepest sense of the
word that they have reverence for a god
that makes moral demands that is that is
that is what In God We Trust is about
and though and people who hold those
beliefs don't understand that they are
necessarily engaged in a competition
that is royal competition well that's
right they don't understand has they
left no the left does left Americans
don't or not I don't mean Americans
there are American leftists who love
America and I want to make that clear
right this is not anti people it's anti
ideas but no the left does know that
that's why the world's Left can stand
America the world's left knows that if
America prospers leftism doesn't this is
the most religious democracy in the
world or certainly of the industrialized
democracies it is the free enterprise
capitalist democracy and it is a
pluribus unum not not UN not it
transnational but we affirm nationalism
so we are the antithesis of leftism all
right segment two on to leftism a
question and a clip Dennis the quotation
from still the best hope quote for the
left politics is the way to transform
the world
close quote the clip President Obama's
commencement address at Barnard earlier
this spring but don't accept somebody
else's construction of the way things
ought to be it's up to you to right
wrongs it's up to you to point out
injustice it's up to you to hold the
system accountable and sometimes upend
it entirely it's up to you to stand up
and to be heard to write in to lobby
tomorrow
to organize to vote that's his religion
so that sounds very noble
right right Lobby organized and the
whole system I told my listeners on my
radio show before he was elected I said
you the reason I cannot vote for him was
just articulated because because he said
I want to fundamentally transform the
United States of America I don't I want
to improve the United States of America
I don't wish to fundamentally transform
it can you imagine if your wife said to
you or said to somebody else you know
I'd like to fundamentally transform
Peter I know your wife wants to improve
you that's what wives are for but but
fundamentally transform that's very
different but this is utopia on earth
utopia now politics is their religion
all right once again a quotation and a
clip and again the quotation from still
the best hope quote the left argues that
almost all social programs can be solved
by the state taxing its citizens as much
as possible well that sounds pretty
provocative but listen to this clip
which is Massachusetts Democratic
candidate for the United States Senate
Harvard professor Elizabeth Warren
nobody in this country who got rich on
his own nobody you built a factory out
there good for you but I want to be
clear you moved your goods to market on
the roads the rest of us paid for you
hired workers the rest of us paid to
educate you all were safe in your
factory because of police forces and
fire forces that the rest of us paid for
Dennis behind every brilliant individual
behind every entrepreneurial success you
will find the collective you will find a
large expenditure of tax money where
would Dennis Prager and his radio
program be without the Federal
Communications Committee is that in case
true I guess you think of it the roads
that got me to my studio I mean it's
endless being a thief the the
rules that govern the restaurant I had
breakfast in I'm I it's just I never
thought of it that way however don't
those rules and benefits apply to
everybody so it doesn't explain why some
do more than others people who watch
television 6 hours a day also get their
roads paid for also had all of these
things but somehow they didn't
contribute to society so it's a non
sequitur her whole point but yes the big
government big government is the ideal
the state and we on the left will use
the state to tell you how to live
because we simply know better okay next
question about the left the people we've
just been criticizing are the President
of the United States and a very
influential Harvard professor who now
has a good shot of being elected to the
United States Senate leftism wins votes
it has an abiding appeal in this country
you talk in this book about
progressivism beginning all the way back
in the first decade and two decades of
the last century why does it why is it
the case that there is a permanent
appeal on why does the Left appeal so
permanently and so deeply right to
Americans well there are many reasons
for them it's a huge chapter why the
left succeeds but in a nutshell sadly
most people prefer security to Liberty
they'd rather be taken care of and make
a mess aphelion deal I will give you a
lot of my dignity and a lot of my
Liberty you give me security you make
sure that I am taken care of and all I
have to worry about is where I travel
this year that's the European view and
that is the view that the left would
like to have that your only worry really
is where will I travel this year
what museum will I visit this from Karl
Marx ideally people will be freed from
labor and they will write poetry
so what you're saying this is just
occurring to me for the first moment so
I may be good I may miss state it but
what you're saying
I think it's in it's in the legend of
the Grand Inquisitor it's in Dostoyevsky
isn't it
freedom is a burden grand grand
inquisitor in this scene between the
Grand Inquisitor was right that freedom
at freedom is a burden that people don't
want freedom they strike yeah so you're
not saying that American values are best
because and they come natural they're
hard it is hardly that when the Jews
left Egypt within months they were
saying let's go back at least we ate
well right right
segment three Islam still the best hope
quote Islamism to be precise
Islamism thank you still the best hope
I'm quoting you now Dennis
every religion every culture every
ethnic group and every nation has
engaged in violence yet among major
world religions Islam has stood out
close quote
explain well it has its and this there
are certain things in life that are
matters of opinion right uh you know i
think i think this candidate will do
better you think that candidate will do
better I prefer this car you prefer that
car then there are facts either what I
wrote is true or it isn't true so it's
it's not a it's not a tough call Islam
has been violent from its onset does
that mean that it will always be no does
that mean in fact I have a very deep
belief and I write it in the book that
Islam can be reformed that you don't
have to give up this Lomb you don't have
to give up belief in Muhammad and the
Quran in order to be a great person and
to be and to indeed adopt Americanist
values zhudi Jasser a religious Muslim
physician in Arizona is one of my models
I use him as an example who accepts the
American Trinity alongside with his
deeply held Islam but he's an innovator
within the religion his company historic
well look I'll give you the proof right
the greatest Arab Muslim writer in
history according to all outsiders and
probably all Arabs certainly
was eben Khaldoun who wrote an
introduction to history in in the but
let's see about 900 years ago and and he
wrote that jihad that is violent war to
spread Islam is incumbent upon every
Muslim and here's the kicker and I have
the exact citation in the book we are
greater than Jews and Christians because
they don't believe you should kill in
the name of God to spread their religion
but we do once again still the best hope
quote no part of the Muslim world is as
steeped in Islam as is the Arab why then
has the Arab world which has been Muslim
longer than any other part of the Muslim
world been the least free clothing
clothes yeah I mean that's a question
that needs to be answered it's because
Liberty is not is not a Muslim value
Sharia is and and I don't hold this
against Muslims it's that's just the way
it is the Sharia'a purpose is not is not
Liberty and I have the an example in
there which I am so happy to tell you
and so happy and this is where my talk
show has given me so much information
that you can't have just as let's say a
scholar people call you they argue they
tell you stuff yes they do but listen
and I learned from them this this one
you will love I was talking about Somali
taxi drivers in Minnesota and I am I I'm
at Minnesota very often and I know how
this is true that many of the taxi
drivers at the airport are religious
Muslims from Somalia that's where they
went to Minnesota I get not for the
weather I assure you but that's where
they ended up they many of them have
simply said we will not take passengers
who have alcohol or who bring a dog into
the into the taxi dog is considered
impure by many Muslims and alcohol is
banned in his love right a Christian
mailman from Denver called my show and
he said I just want to say Dennis I want
to draw a contrast here that you might
find of interest I am a
I am an evangelical Christian mailman
and I deliver pornography to people who
subscribe to it through the mail I am at
least as opposed as a Christian to
pornography as Muslims are to alcohol or
to dogs but because of liberty and my
belief is an American Christian in
Liberty I deliver the pornography
Islamic scholar Bernhard Lewis here's a
longish quotation but I want to know
what you make of it
quote Islam has brought comfort and
peace of mind to countless millions of
men and women it is given dignity and
meaning to drab and impoverished lives
it inspired a great civilization but
Islam like other religions has also
known periods when it inspired in some
of its followers a mood of hatred and
violence it is our misfortune that part
though by no means all or even most of
the Muslim world is now going through
such a period close quote a great
religion and civilization that is now
evidencing and unfortunate but temporary
and minority or aberrant strain so we're
not in permanent competition with Islam
as a religion or civilization it's just
well you use the word yourself Islamism
its temper and I defamation so you that
that's your view as well yes that well
remember though Islamism as I define it
is the desire to have a Sharia based
state and to spread the Sharia to as
many places in the world as possible
that was not aberrant and that's not
temper that's the problem and I think
that Bernard Lewis would agree all right
a brief clip this is the late anwar el
al Waki who was born in the United
States which made him an American
citizen lived here to the age of seven
and then returned to the United States
for college
Anwar al-aulaqi slims in America I have
this to say how can your conscience
allow you to live in peaceful
coexistence with a nation that is
response
for the tyranny and crimes committed
against your own brothers and sisters
how can you have your loyalty to a
government that is leading the war
against the slammin Muslims place him a
crank he's in the America more a
representative of something very
dangerous to us that we ought to be
expecting to fight for a long time to
come he both he's a crank in the
American Muslim context the vast
majority of Muslims in America accept
the American value system that's the
good news it's the the problem is far
more among the Islamists in Europe and
groups like care in the United States
care is the Council on american-islamic
relations who for whatever reason the
press ordained that spokespeople for
American Muslims but the average
American Muslim has little in common
with this guy as I do got it
segment for American values still the
best hope the value system that is
unique to America can be called the
American Trinity you've already
explained this on the coin Liberty yes
and God We Trust the e pluribus unum
all right Liberty quote the larger the
state the less its citizens feel needed
and therefore the less they especially
men feel significant close quote now
here's what I find fascinating about
that sentence and the argument that you
make obviously I'm reducing somebody
once said that doing television about a
book is reducing an ox to a bouillon
cube but the Federalist the authors of
the Federalist paper Alexander Hamilton
John Jay argued in favor of Liberty the
ordered constant ordered Liberty in the
Constitution because they were seeking a
way to let to permit people to live
together the thirteen states to function
as a nation you've got in our own time
uh economist Milton Friedman and Gary
Becker they argue for liberty because it
leads to prosperity markets can function
markets are the best way of solving
material problems you argue for liberty
somehow or other because you're
interested in you're almost Oprah
Winfrey denna you're interested in
fulfillment you want people to seek to
find meaning in their lives the larger
the state the less its citizens feel
needed and therefore especially men they
don't feel significant is that what
you're talking about
the best way to personal fulfillment
aren't you right yes I am the the the
more of the state does the less I have
to do it's just as simple as that if I
don't take care of my parents don't take
care of my kids don't take care of
myself don't take care of my community
what do I do and the answer is look look
at look at what happens in Europe your
your big concerns are where do I dine
out how early can I retire so I can
travel more it's never how can I do more
good and and it on a macro level in
Europe look at the way Europe is
withdrawn from the world as the United
States that has protected Liberty in the
world since World War two not Europeans
and you're saying that that is bad for
people it's especially bad for men yes
men men derive purpose from conquering
the world if the state conquers the
world
what's for them to do and that's why you
have bands of English youth going onto
the continent and peeing and fountains
that in Italy and elsewhere it's it's
notorious by now you have board a board
European youth and I worry boredom is a
terrible indicator of bad bad futures
the second item in the American Trinity
in god we trust'
still the best hope I'm quoting again
the founders substituted God for a
powerful secular or religious state and
they tied Liberty to God they tied
Liberty to God now explain that Dennis
it's ingenious
it's the system that's why I say it's
the best in the world the notion that
the state or the or even religion was
primarily concerned with Liberty this
was almost entirely an American
invention and certainly became
associated with the United States look
even within Judaism and Christianity
look they took a verse the founders from
the Bible specifically the Old Testament
specifically the Torah the first five
books to be on the on the on the Liberty
Bell right so I'm proclaim Liberty to
all the land and the inhabitants thereof
yeah Atticus is very good right very
good that's because I did a radio show
with you last week Dennis that's very
humble and looked at out it's even
better than good honest but it's this
notion of time God God wants Liberty
that's what the mailman was saying God
wants Liberty even more than he wants me
to not deliver the pornography to these
people who ordered it this is a a unique
invention in the world God cares that
we're free but you're not saying that
they invented a new religion you're
saying that this is a right that this is
a deep expression of something that's
within Judaism and that's within
Christianity but it needed it did
something and this I did not write I
don't I don't know if I wrote it and I
can't say it didn't all right now now
this is the interesting part and
specifically very interesting part it
really took the best of the two
religions it took the Old Testament for
its values and it took the the Christian
universalization of those values because
the Jews are a people yes right not just
a religion and Christianity is a
religion and not a people so it's it
said we'll take these magnificent values
we Christians will take the Magnificent
values of the Hebrew Bible but we will
universalize them and and so whereas the
Jews had been preoccupied with Jewish
law and Jewish observance in Jewish
survival and were more inward directed
for much of Jewish history the
Christians now said no we are going to
make a society based on these divinely
based values and that mixture is awesome
and this is why in particular you will
you
to law-breaking of any kind but you're
not one of the conservatives who's
bothered by immigration by a growing
proportion of the population I'm I'm
bothered by I'm bothered by the non
assimilation right right I'm bothering
those values are genuine you genuinely /
if that's the you see it this bill
Bennett said I what is it he had a great
line he said I am not worried about what
immigrants will do to America I'm
worried about what America will do to
the immigrants we after if we knew what
we stood for and taught these people
yeah you know what I have a message to
all Hispanics in America all Latinos in
America why would you want to replicate
what you left that's what happens when
you vote for the Democratic Party Denis
you argue that religion is essential to
the virtues the fundamental sense of
morality required in a democracy will
you tell me what to make of the
following clip this is my late friend
Christopher Hitchens on this very
program seated in fact at that seat
here's an exchange with Christopher if
Christopher Hitchens believed in God
reviewers have asked then where does he
get his sense of right and wrong you
have replied in print that this question
is in itself insulting and you have
rejected quote the appalling insinuation
that I would not know right from wrong
if I was not supernaturally guided close
quote why do you find it insulting
because I think it's degrading to to the
human to us to you and me to imply we're
not to apply to stay directly that
absent a celestial dictatorship that had
some supernatural influence over us yet
to be established by the way as anything
really existent but without the
assumption of it we wouldn't know right
from wrong
we wouldn't return stolen property if we
found it in the back of a car we
wouldn't give blood if someone badly
needed a transfusion unless we were
afraid either of rewards either of
punishment or desirous of a reward that
we might help ourselves to underage
children as some religious people have
actually been known to do because after
all what's stopping us now you could
tell me if you wanted you would do all
this they
if you weren't god-fearing but I would
choose not to believe you I have more
respect for you if enough your opinions
then that you don't need religion to be
virtuous no you don't you don't you
can't no of course he was right about
all that no he was not right about all
of that because he didn't deal with the
larger question is there right and wrong
if there is no God you there were people
who believed the earth rested on the
back of a giant turtle who did right and
wrong who do new right and wrong
I screw is that Jews and Christians
believe in absolutely hold that there is
a conscience that God built into the
human being that unlike animals that's
why we're in the image of God and not
animals we know right and wrong and
animals do not you don't blame a dog for
biting somebody you don't blame them and
and and in my view you don't I don't
praise them for making a moral choice if
they help some kid out of a pond that's
that's what they do it's instinct we
have moral choice obviously then if God
it God held humanity wrong before the
Ten Commandments so obviously there must
have been some expectation of right and
wrong however if there is no God
murder isn't wrong whether it is right
or wrong is solely a matter of personal
opinion the Nazis thought it was right
Praeger thinks it's wrong end of issue
if there's no God as the source of right
and wrong there is no right and wrong it
is the same as pretty and ugly still the
best hope the third item in the American
Trinity a pluribus unum out of many one
quote the cultural war in which America
is engaged is in large measure about
American exceptionalism conservative
America generally believes in the
concept liberal America does not close
quote with particular reference to this
notion of out of many one as opposed to
diversity what explain explain this well
the the there's a conflict this is why I
say leftism in Americanism are aren't
diametric conflict Liberty versus
equality that is
thoroughly quality in god we trust'
versus a secular state and a plural
bassoon versus multiculturalism we want
we announced we Americans race ethnicity
nationality blood don't matter now
that's doesn't Elizabeth Warren is 1/32
yes I know that's the coin thing that's
for clay and no no less an institution
than harvest Harvard you know this is
the irony the progressives have gone
back to blood beliefs they've got the
progressives are utterly reactionary
American values transcended blood that
doesn't mean Americans did many
Americans believe blacks were inferior
was despicable but the American value
system holds that it is irrelevant if
you could look up the great line from
Saakashvili the President of the
Republic of Georgia that I have in there
says only in America said the other week
I was that I was seeing some Americans
working at a at an office and I saw
people from Africa Asia you know all
over and but they all looked American
they all spoke American they all had
American body language and he said only
in America try that anywhere else it
doesn't work segment five what is to be
done your subtitle title still the best
hope subtitle why the world needs
American values to triumph why the world
needs American values China 1.3 billion
people how do you get them to adopt
American values what difference would it
make what would you apply your notions
the world needs American values when I
explain in the book how the American
Trinity is adaptable to every country
and not only do we not want others to
abandon their religion or their national
identity we want them to affirm it
that's the beauty of the American value
system that I want Chinese to feel
Chinese I want Hondurans to feel
Honduran that's the Europeans don't want
friends to feel French demands all they
want that's right right ok but because
that's the left view that you
have no identity no identity is the best
I'm just a human being but no the
American is eater of his own of the UNAM
is as important as the e pluribus one
you have one national identity
nationalism is good if it comes with God
and liberty okay so I have heard it said
and it sounds to me strikes me is the
best very brief summary of 3000 years of
Chinese history that Mal eliminated
Confucius and then Deng eliminated Mao
and so you have 1.3 billion people who
at this stage believe vaguely in some
sense of national purpose more
concretely
in material improvement that's right and
otherwise that's correct
up iliyan free people right whose value
system is well actually just as Russia
the Lenin limit Lenin and Stalin
eliminated orthodoxy right and then you
could use the same parallel than Chris
Jeff eliminated Stalin and then and then
so how do where do they how do they
proceed it's a big problem there is a
real me allistic void in this world and
it's going to be filled with leftism
Islamism or Americanism and they're
proselytizing and we don't even know
what we stand for
we can't you can't sell what you don't
know you own all right let's ask how
we're doing with Islam Bernard Lewis on
the Arab Spring quote the Muslim
Brotherhood is a very dangerous radical
Islamic movement you have to hear that
on this show because you won't read it
in the New York Times if it obtains
power the consequences could be
disastrous close quote
as we tape this program one of the two
finalists in the Egyptian presidential
election is the candidate of the Muslim
Brotherhood how is the struggle against
radical Islam going Dennis well I wrote
a piece which among other places
National Review where we both appear put
up my syndicated weekly column it was a
few weeks after the Arab Spring was
announced and the New York Times and
elsewhere and I said eight reasons why I
am pesum
think about the Egyptian revolution
eight reasons they've all been valid as
it happens now why was Tom Friedman the
foreign that's reasonable number one if
Friedman's for it be pessimist well well
if it naive Tay that's the point Oh got
it
the left is naive because there were
Twitter using youth who loved Liberty in
Tahrir Square did love Liberty that is
what's real is trying to embrace let me
represent yeah and by the way embracing
democracy is not loving Liberty
democracy and liberty are sometimes
connected you can vote in tyrants you
could vote in Sharia then you don't vote
in that's what they're doing when they
vote for the Muslim Brotherhood they're
voting in Sharia so you are still
pessimistic about the Arab Spring yes
what about Iraq am i pessimistic about
Iran it's better it's better than it was
was there Saddam Hussein okay oh let me
explain something when you say I support
and supported them to President Bush in
the world watch it started got it got it
I was ambivalent about going in okay
American values here at home American
values in America Dennis a few
statistics let me compare America in the
early 1980s when you launched your radio
career with the country today in
nineteen eighty three fewer than
one-third of households received a
monthly government check today that
figure stands at half in nineteen eighty
sixty percent of American households
featured a married couple man and wife
today only forty eight percent today by
the way also the the proportion of
taxpayers who receive more than from the
federal government than they pay in in
the form of taxes stands at seventy
percent
Dennis it's too late leftism has already
won we have passed a tipping point
and you will cheer me by saying no and
here's why
hmm.well Krauthammer said that the
american DNA it's funny because i talk
about the DNA of the left as being
totalitarian which it is the desire to
control as much of our lives possible
like Oregon telling schools that they
can have the word Braves in the title
it's against the law now because it's by
the way the Indian tribes in Oregon
protested I mean that's the irony but in
any event the American DNA he said is
Liberty however DNA can is not the
determinant of all of our behavior
leftism is it is poisonous it it makes
people who have good intentions do bad
things and do corrosive things so what
you want me to cheer you up
yes ly okay I will cheer you up there
are a lot of Americans today who
understand the epic battle that we are
in that part of America is no longer
lethargic no longer takes America for
granted in the 50s the assumption was
we're terrific we're free we'll always
be free now we're realizing that's not
true every generation has to reaffirm
these values that's why I wrote the book
you this book is to call yes people who
hold a mirror the American trend the
American values to call them to
consciousness to rouse them to wear them
yeah to wake them and to tell them what
it is they don't know I didn't know I
didn't know till twenty years ago the
this notion if you'd said Dennis what
are American values I would as well and
I would have given you a speech well he
also should be an old patriotism and
love of country and it probably would
have said Liberty but I wouldn't have
realized the Trinity and will how they
connect with one another and I mean the
American Trinity I just want to go back
to one this I listed some depressing
statistics but we touched on this it's
still rolling around in my mind what was
the great book you and I both grew up in
New York I think it was on the
required reading list for Regents when
you went through junior high in high
school in New York State to kill a
mockingbird I think it still required
reading in high schools across the
country and what is the great hero of to
kill a mockingbird Atticus Finch is
struggling against identifying people on
the basis of race and we know that one
of the things that was so pernicious
about racism in the South was the
one-drop rule mm-hmm at some level does
it just drive you to a kind of despair
yeah ii think that harvard university
publicized the notion that elizabeth
warren was one 32nd chair harp that is a
transmission of values from the scorned
small-town old south to harvard
university Europe in untranslated for it
is simply a picking it up from here and
dropping it down it isn't it just rot I
mean madness it is that's what I say
that that the multicultural ideal is to
undermine EEP Laura bassoon um what what
you what does Jesse Jackson and others
say no we don't believe in the melting
pot were a quilt no no we believed in
the melting pot doesn't mean you gave up
your identity I live in a part of the LA
area which is very largely Armenian I've
spoken at Armenian schools I think
that's lovely I went to a Jewish school
I think that's lovely but that doesn't
mean I don't believe in a melting pot
the Armenian American and me were
American okay Dennis there is one place
I want to try this one on you where
American values are still respected
still acted upon listen for a moment the
longest quotation but it makes an
important point and moreover I want to
see how you respond to it this is art
laughs Ernst even more writing recently
in the Wall Street Journal and they're
writing about the heartland the middle
of the country people are leaving
workers paradises such as Hartford
Buffalo and Providence for Jacksonville
San Antonio and Knoxville
Republican governors in Florida Georgia
Idaho North Dakota South Carolina Ohio
Tennessee Wisconsin and even Michigan
and New Jersey are cutting taxes to lure
new businesses and jobs
Georgia Kansas Missouri and Oklahoma are
now racing to become America's tenth
state without an income tax all of them
want what
this has almost half of all new net jobs
in America over the last decade
overwhelmingly they're talking about
states in the middle of the country and
although they're talking about economic
growth these are also states where
family formation is high where religious
observance is high where in many cases
they've passed a state amendment
amendment to the state constitution
making sure that marriage remains one
man and one woman even California voted
that way we've avoided that way and then
head up of course as you know in detail
had a judge under all right so though so
here's the practical thing you have to
do tennis you need to leave LA and move
to Dallas and just try to hold the
Heartland together until the rest of the
country comes to its senses that's
really the best hope what do you make of
that I've thought about that have you
real absolutely you're ahead of me again
I have it no I'm not ahead of you but I
have definitely thought very seriously
about that were it not for familial and
friendship ties I would leave California
III say it with sadness because I I have
I have loved it there there there are so
many wonderful people there but but it
has been ground into the ground to be
redundant by the Democratic Party
because it can do whatever it wants in
every area of life financially socially
textbooks so yes I agree you know I
would love to do a swap let all the
liberals go to New York and California
won't go I mean give them a nice weather
no that's Manhattan and that economy you
you have a built-in great economy and
they did the left-handed most dynamic
economy in America California and ruined
it it's because their ideas are bad
their ideas are pernicious
they don't work they don't work in
Europe what does it take for a leftist
to wake up one day and say it's not
enough to mean well you have to do well
alright last couple of questions still
the best hope quote the United States of
America has a cure for moral cancer
close quote I want to know
I'm not asking you to predict the future
exactly but I want to know how
optimistic you are I wish you didn't ask
that I'm serious the reason that I wish
you didn't ask you have kids I mean
there's yes but even if I didn't have
kids all American kids are my kids in a
certain sense and I'm not being poetic
but the reason I wish you didn't ask it
is that I don't like to think in those
terms I this is the terms that I think
in all right if we reimburse the
American value system we I am thoroughly
optimistic if we don't I'm thoroughly
pessimistic so it comes with a big if
and that's why I waited 12 years since
my last book which was the best seller
on of all subjects happiness which by
the way is in a very important subject
for another time and there's a reason by
the way that conservatives are happier
than liberals and I have that in the
book because a very important little
little epilogue at the end of the
leftist chapter why are people on the
Left less happy but if you don't feel
you command your own ship you can't be
as happy that's the American value
system says I rather I Dennis much
rather fail and be free right then be
taken care of and never be allowed to
fail right but anyway on the optimistic
pessimistic it's a big if if we reaffirm
the values we will soar if not we're
Greece last question I hereby assure you
that you you may give one sentence but
only one sentence of advice to Barack
Obama and Mitt Romney and they will act
on it if I gave you that assurance what
sentence would you give to President
Obama well you mean for him to win the
presidency no no really
no no till I would give the same advice
the bigger the government the smaller
the citizen that's my that's my motto -
both of them - both of them you you we
are reduced our liberty is reduced our
dignity is reduced the bigger the
government
that I want to take care of my community
I want to take care of my family okay
and then I keep saying last Quest
rouille is the last question I just gave
asking you for advice to for the
president and Governor Romney you have a
boy who's 29 you have a boy who's 19
this program which appears on the web is
especially popular among college kids
and I am conscious that guys with hair
our color can get a little pessimistic
about the country and we get up and walk
off and get about our life and the
college kid wait a minute I have to find
a career here and what so to somebody
who's beginning his life what is your
advice to that person that never ever
ever ever think that change in and of
itself is good maybe just maybe there
was wisdom in the founders of this
country and they offered us a recipe for
a good life that still works Dennis
Prager author of still the best hope
radio show phenomenon and my friend I'm
happy to say thank you for joining us
it's really been another for uncommon
knowledge I'm Peter Robinson
[Music]